Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we are going to talk about dumb events.
All right, so we have I think we have just like very briefly have talked about event listeners and
now this is the lecture to go really in-depth into them.
Now, done events are the kind of like inputs that we listen for when we receive some sort of user input.
And after that, we run some sort of code or logic based on that event and why we do that.
We do it because we want to make the website, our website, our Web page or our Web application more
interactive and bring it to life more dynamic.
All right.
So in almost all of our projects inside this course, we are going to have some sort of dumb interactivity
with the user.
All right.
So what are these interactions?
So I've listed eight of these interactions.
There are there could be literally thousands.
So when the user clicks, when the user hovers, scrolls, fills out a form, double clicks, mouse
is over and an element.
User drugs and drops user presses key.
It doesn't matter as long as the user does something with the website, we can capture it and we can
implement logic based on that interactivity between the user and the website.
This is where dumb events come from.
All the everything that the user does is actually translated to an event in the world of JavaScript.
So whatever the user does to our website, whether the user scrolls fills out the form, whatever that
is called, an event.
And these events they built, they belong to done to the document object model because at the end of
the day, user is working with the document.
Right, that we have created.
And Dom is actually an object kind of representation or an object model of that document.
All right.
So now I'm sure you are getting what is and how it works.
Right.
And the way we can communicate with the user through events is that we always add an event listener.
We always listen for an event and when the event is fired.
We do something, this is how simple it is.
This is the logic behind it.
So we are going to talk about events.
We are going to start with the click event when the user clicks and in the markup, we just have two
buttons.
The first one has a class of change, Viji, and the second one has a class of reset.
Viji and what I want to do, I wanted what I what it is, what it what is it that I want to accomplish?
What I want to accomplish is when the user clicks the change object or change background, the background
of the body is change.
And when the user clicks reset B.G. the background of the body is reset to its original or maybe like
it's reset it to some sort of original kind of color.
Right.
So this is exactly what I want to do here.
So first off, whenever we want to interact with HTML elements through Dume, we have to reference those
HDMI elements inside the JavaScript.
We have to select him.
So let's go ahead and let's select the first button.
Concert and OK, so I'm just going to go ahead and I'm going to go very generic on this and I'm going
to say change, but not getting better or better.
All right.
I'm going to say document.
Document, dot, query selector.
So what is the class of this button, the class of this button is that change dash biji.
Right.
So we can go ahead and console log it to make sure that we have selected the button correctly change
button.
And now if I hover over that button is selected, see.
So we have successfully selected that and I'm going to remove this console because we are getting more
and more better and good about this JavaScript thingy.
And we don't need so many console logs anymore, do we?
Right.
You feel comfortable?
I feel like you feel comfortable writing JavaScript at this point.
And that is exactly the intention behind this course.
When you finish it, you're going to become a fantastic JavaScript developer.
All right.
If you are a fantastic you are going to become a fantastic KO'd, right?
All right, so now we have selected that button, we are going to say we are not when you select that
button, you then you want to add an event listener to that button, because event is something that
the user does.
So event is not something that we do.
Event is something that the user does.
So when the user does an event or implements an event, we want to listen for that event.
So we are going to say change.
Better not add event listener.
This is one of the most beautiful methods in JavaScript.
All right.
So we have called this idea from listener.
So what do we want to listen for?
So this out of the listener is going to accept two arguments.
All right.
So the first argument is the kind of event that we want to listen for, and that is the click event.
Yes, that is right.
We have a click event in JavaScript.
Right.
So we want to listen for a click, because whenever we click this button, we are actually clicking
it.
All right.
So we want to listen for a click.
And when the user clicks and we capture it, what do we want to do with that?
We want to run a callback function.
This is where everything in JavaScript ties together.
Now, we have talked about variables in our first chapters.
We have talked about functions, arrays, loops.
And when it when we get to creating real world webs like real world projects, you're going to see how
all of these pieces, they come together and they complete the puzzle that is JavaScript.
And after you complete it and you take a look at this entire picture, which is JavaScript, you're
going to know that it has never been a puzzle, right?
It has always been there.
And you can always learn it.
Right.
So I'm very excited.
Very, very, very I can barely contain the excitement because I really love events.
And most and and most of the things that you can see on the website, it's done through dumb, OK?
It is one of the most amazing and awesome things and of course, powerful things that JavaScript can
do.
All right.
So we are going to grab the document, that body we have done this before, the way we can access the
body element of an e-mail.
We have the reserve we have a reserve selector in JavaScript for that.
And that is document that.
But and we want to style it.
What is the style that we want to add?
It is a background color, right.
So what is the background color that we want to add to it?
The code is going to be eight F, C o a nine.
And remember, this style is going to be an inline style for the bot.
Right.
And at the same time, what do I want to do?
I want to console I want to log to the console and message as well.
So the message is going to be console the log.
And I just want to say that the.
Change big button has been collected.
I just want to do that, so now technically when I click on this button, we should see the background
color change and we should see some sort of message down here.
So let's go ahead and click it.
Weida We see that this background color has changed and we see that it says the change button has been
clicked.
And congratulations on creating your very first event and you're on your way to become a very fantastic
developer.
So now let's go ahead and let's implement an if listener for this.
So when the user clicks the reset, B.G., we want the background color of the body to go to.
It's like maybe the original was white.
We wanted to go to white.
So in here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to, first off, grab the reset button, so I'm going
to say reset button document dot, query selector.
All right, and what is the class name off of this button?
It is dot reset dash, which you can't check it out, but I'm not going to sew.
So in here.
Now, what do we want to do?
I'm I'm explaining this at this event event listeners in depth at the start, because when we get to
creating what I always say websites, when we get to creating apps and projects, then there are a lot
of other complicated stuff that I need to explain.
And I'm just going to be writing the ad of a listener and I'm going to expect you guys to understand
what I'm saying, what I'm writing, actually, because I have to explain the advanced stuff I cannot
like.
What is it the word Klencke on this ad?
One listener.
And every time it comes up, I should explain it in depth.
No, that is not how I like like web development works.
That's why when a new fresh topic starts it, it should be explained thoroughly.
And afterwards, it just it is just typed and the next fresh topic is going to be explained thoroughly.
All right.
So this reset button, we want to we want to grab the reset button and whatever the reset button is
clicked.
We want to listen for a click.
So let's grab the reset button where our reset button and no user does.
The clicking user carries out the event.
We as developers, we listen for that event.
So we set out a listener.
And what is the event?
The event is the click.
And after it has been clicked, we are going to run a callback function.
What do we want to do?
Basically, we want to do these two lines and I'm going to paste him right here.
We want to change the background color of the body to faith, and I'm going to say the reset button
has been correct, the reset button.
So now if I click on change, we are going to say the change button has been click.
And when I click on the reset, the background color is going to reset and it's going to say the reset
button has been clicked.
Think of this is as a very, very low level, very, very small, tiny, miniscule application.
But it conveys this point and it conveys the strength and power and potential of dumb events.
That's it for this lecture.
See you guys in the next one.